README.md, before:

# DBSpider

DBSpider is a Python-based utility designed to crawl and fetch data from existing databases, processing user search queries and returning results in a readable format. It supports integration with various data sources and can be extended for custom retrieval tasks. The tool emphasizes modularity and ease of use, making it suitable for developers building data query applications.

**Note:** This project is under development. Features like database connections, query handling, and output formatting are being refined. Details on specific query types or data domains are kept general to allow flexibility.

## Features
- **Database Crawling:** Connects to external databases to fetch and index data.
- **Query Processing:** Accepts user inputs, executes searches, and returns structured results.
- **Modular Design:** Easily extendable with plugins or modules for different data sources.
- **Configuration-Driven:** Uses environment variables and config files for secure setup.
- **Background Tasks:** Supports scheduled operations like data refreshes.

## Installation
1. Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dbspider.git
cd dbspider
2. Set up a virtual environment (Python 3.8+ recommended): python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/Mac
venv\Scripts\activate  # On Windows
3. Install dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt (Note: Create `requirements.txt` with your project's libs, e.g., `aiomysql`, `aiohttp`.)
4. Configure environment variables (create a `.env` file): DB_HOST=your-database-host
DB_USER=your-username
DB_PASSWORD=your-password
DB_NAME=your-database
Add other configs as needed 
5. Run the tool: python main.py  # Or your entry point script 
## Usage
- **Basic Query Example:** 
  - python main.py --query "search term" This fetches data matching the query from the configured database and prints results.

- **Advanced Options:**
- Use flags for filters, limits, or output formats (e.g., JSON).
- Integrate as a module in other projects for programmatic access.

For detailed examples, see the `examples/` folder (add as you develop).

## Development
- **Contributing:** Fork the repo, create a feature branch, and submit a pull request. Follow PEP 8 style guidelines.
- **Testing:** Use `pytest` (install via pip). Run tests with `pytest`.
- **Security Note:** Never commit secrets. Use `.env` and `.gitignore` to protect sensitive info.
- **Scaling:** Designed for easy installation on any server. Future plans include containerization (Docker).

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contact
For questions or contributions, open an issue on GitHub.

*Project maintained by [liquidmonks]. Last updated: July 2025.*

Commit message:

Add security instructions to the README for handling environment variables and `.env` files.

README.md, after:

# DBSpider

DBSpider is a Python-based utility designed to crawl and fetch data from existing databases, processing user search queries and returning results in a readable format. It supports integration with various data sources and can be extended for custom retrieval tasks. The tool emphasizes modularity and ease of use, making it suitable for developers building data query applications.

**Note:** This project is under development. Features like database connections, query handling, and output formatting are being refined. Details on specific query types or data domains are kept general to allow flexibility.

## Features
- **Database Crawling:** Connects to external databases to fetch and index data.
- **Query Processing:** Accepts user inputs, executes searches, and returns structured results.
- **Modular Design:** Easily extendable with plugins or modules for different data sources.
- **Configuration-Driven:** Uses environment variables and config files for secure setup.
- **Background Tasks:** Supports scheduled operations like data refreshes.

## Installation
1. Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dbspider.git
cd dbspider
2. Set up a virtual environment (Python 3.8+ recommended): python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/Mac
venv\Scripts\activate  # On Windows
3. Install dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt (Note: Create `requirements.txt` with your project's libs, e.g., `aiomysql`, `aiohttp`.)
4. Configure environment variables (create a `.env` file): DB_HOST=your-database-host
DB_USER=your-username
DB_PASSWORD=your-password
DB_NAME=your-database
Add other configs as needed 
5. Run the tool: python main.py  # Or your entry point script 

## Security
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in your actual values.
- The bot loads these via environment variables for secure configuration.
- Never commit `.env` to Git—it's excluded via .gitignore.
- For production, consider additional measures like encrypted secrets or vault services.

## Usage
- **Basic Query Example:** 
  - python main.py --query "search term" This fetches data matching the query from the configured database and prints results.

- **Advanced Options:**
- Use flags for filters, limits, or output formats (e.g., JSON).
- Integrate as a module in other projects for programmatic access.

For detailed examples, see the `examples/` folder (add as you develop).

## Development
- **Contributing:** Fork the repo, create a feature branch, and submit a pull request. Follow PEP 8 style guidelines.
- **Testing:** Use `pytest` (install via pip). Run tests with `pytest`.
- **Security Note:** Never commit secrets. Use `.env` and `.gitignore` to protect sensitive info.
- **Scaling:** Designed for easy installation on any server. Future plans include containerization (Docker).

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contact
For questions or contributions, open an issue on GitHub.

*Project maintained by [liquidmonks]. Last updated: July 2025.*
